README.md, before:

# Doug's Club

A one page web app showcasing Doug's Gym's facilities, conveying a healthy lifestyle and a friendly community.

 
### Table of Contents

> - Description - x
> - User Stories - x
> - UX - x
> - Features - x
> - Technologies Used
> - References for learning
> - Testing
> - Bugs and the turnarounds
> - Code validity
> - Version Control
> - Deployment
> - Credits
> - Acknowledgments
> - Support


### Description

> Doug's Club is a place where people from every walk of life get together to workout and to feel good about themselves - it's a place where people can train with social support. 

---

#### User Stories

> - _"Between work and university, I don't have time to sign a contract to workout. I need a simpler process to sign-up."_
> - _"I spend eight hours or more working on a pc. If I'm browsing a service for myself, I want to do it through my phone."_
> - _"The life of a student ain't easy - we're constantly on a budget. I need a service that fits on my pocket."_
> - _"I feel like having a supportive community helps our achieve our goals - I want to workout in a friendly environment."_


---

### UX

Doug's Club website aims at a broader community, targeting people from diverse backgrounds and with small time frames. A simple layout with an uncomplicated way to sign-up for the service and book classes is key. The focus is to direct people to the gym.

---

#### 1. Strategy

> The goal of this endeavour is to offer a service which will improve general well-being and help users to choose a healthier lifestyle.
>
> ##### Project Goals:
>
> - Offer a simple and fast way to sign-up for the service, to book classes and interact with the community.
>
> - Increase the perception of how a healthy lifestyle can improve general well-being.
>
> - Enlarge member's database through social media.
>
> ##### Customer Goals:
>
> - Enhanced UX design through mobile-first approach.
> - Clear and concise content, simple interaction with the system to attain a quick yet efficient visit.
> - Learn about the infrastructure of the club and its class framework through visual content.
> - Footer supplying links to Social Media.
> - Effortless sign-up service.
> - Navigation bar for a smoother navigation.
> - Diminished time to load the page and content, in order to speed up the experience.
> - Book classes on-the-fly.

#### 2. Scope

> The focus here is to achieve a version of the website with just enough features to be usable - the concept of Minimum viable product (MVP), that contains:
>
> - Catalog wiht pictures depicting the amenities of the club.
> - Map location of the club.
> - Sign-up form.
> - Straightforward UX for the users.
> - Features that match my current knowledge.
#### 3. Structure

>  On the structure plan, the effort was concentrated on prompting the user to quickly understand the layout of the page and find the content easily digestible - hence the content is structured on a bite-size framework. 
>  The gallery presents pictures of the club and are organised in a simple slide show widget with a brief description of the room - 
>  navigation bar intends to improve the returning user's experience.

#### 4. Skeleton

> - [Wireframes](assets/docs/wireframes.pdf): One-page website with **4** main sections
>
> - Home, About (Who are we?, What's in for you?, What do we offer?), Gallery, Team and Sign-Up/Contact Section/Pages
>
> - Fixed navigation bar - Menu headings pointing to each of the 4 pages.
>
> - Fixed Footer with Copyright info and Social Media icons

---

#### 5. Surface

I've decided on a relaxed, yet exciting visual experience reflecting nature and peacefulness coupled with exhilaration of more extreme 4x4 routes and breath-taking views.

> ###### Colours
>
> Neutral earth-tones, reflecting the environment, inviting the User 'outdoors'. 
> - I've chosen 2 primary greens for backgrounds (#eef4db) and headings (#425012). 
> - For body text, I've used a combination of a dark grey (#242424) and off-white (#fafafa), maintaining strong, balanced contrasts.
> 
> ###### Typography
>
> - "Varela Round" font (with fall-back font of Verdana) for main headings. This font was specifically chosen for its rounded edges, which relate to natural curves in nature.
> - "Cabin" font (with fall-back font of Sans-Serif) for body content.
>
> ###### Images
>
> The image selection has been carefully chosen to depict both relaxed road trips for beginners (to instill confidence in taking part as a newcomer); and more extreme 4x4 experiences for the advanced, familiar user.

---

### Features

##### Existing Features

> - Designed with HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.
> - Single page site with 4 sections acting as individual pages.
> - Fixed navigation allows the user to easily navigate, regardless of which page visited.
> - Fixed footer allows the user quick accessibility to social media links.
> - Auto-scrolling carousel on desktop and tablet landscape views for vivid imagery experience.
> - Fixed, stacked images for mobile views, with soft box-shadow.
> - Contact Form with radio buttons.

##### Features Left to Implement when skills develop

> - Form submission button needs to be functional (once Javascript is learnt).
> - Integration of Social media Page to have a live update feeds of planned trips and events.

---

### Technologies Used

##### 1. Languages

> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593529419/Logos/html5-50_groo6o.png)   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5).
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593529419/Logos/CSS3-50_slrv0x.png)    [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets).

##### 2. Integrations

> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593528776/Logos/Bootstrap-50_khpj57.png)   [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - by linking via [BootstrapCDN](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/) to HTML Doc.
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593528776/Logos/fontawesome-50_r5df5h.png) [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/) Icons for Social Media links in Footer.
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593528776/Logos/GoogleFonts-50_mx57p6.png) [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Overall Typography import.

##### 3. Workspace, version control and Repository storage

> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593518541/Logos/gitpod-50_qaxo1q.png)  [GitPod](https://github.com/mkuti/corklagos-venture/blob/master/gitpod.io) - Main workspace IDE (Integrated Development Environment)
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593518772/Logos/git-50_znskan.png) [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - Distributed Version Control tool to store versions of files and track changes.
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593518773/Logos/github-50_ixwpch.png)  [GitHub](https://github.com/) - A cloud-based hosting service to manage my **Git** repositories.

##### 4. Other

> [Autoprefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) Parses CSS and adds vendor prefixes.
> [Google Mobile-Friendly Test](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly) Mobile-friendly check on site.
> [Website Page Test](https://www.webpagetest.org/) Runs a website speed test from multiple locations around the globe using real browsers (IE and Chrome) and at real consumer connection speeds. 
> [Online-Spellcheck](https://www.online-spellcheck.com/) Online spelling and grammar checks.

##### 5. IDE Extensions used in GitPod

> - Auto Close Tag
> - Auto Nametag
> - Bracket Pair Colorizer
> - Code Spellchecker
> - Prettier - Code Formatter
> - Indent-Rainbow

---

### Resources

> - [Code Institute Course Content](https://courses.codeinstitute.net/) - Main source of fundamental knowledge.
> - Code Institute **SLACK Community** - Main source of assistance
> - [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) - General resource.
> - [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/) - General resource.
> - [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/) - General resource.
> - [W3.CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/w3css/4/w3.css) - General resource.
> - [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/help/) - For Markdown language reference.
> - [FlexBox Froggy Game](http://flexboxfroggy.com/) - Learning platform for FlexBox.
> - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - Find matching color palette for site.
> - [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com/) - Efficient compression of images for site.
> - [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) - Responsive website mockup image generator.
> - [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/) - Wireframing design tool.
> - [Kevin Powell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHO6TBq_auI) Video tutorial on CSS Variables.
> - [Bootsrap Grid Explanation by Anna Greaves](https://ajgreaves.github.io/bootstrap-grid-demo/) - This was an invaluable resource for me to wrap my head around Grid layouts.
---

### Testing

> - After initial wireframe design, I checked each navigation item link is working correctly to each Page. I set a _temporary_ contrasting background colour to each page to mark out each section.
> - Tested responsiveness of the wireframe using Dev Tools and confirmed basic structure looks and works well on all mobile decides from 320px, up to desktop size.
> - Tested **Logo text** in menu bar to ensure it points to the Home page.
> - Tested **About, Gallery and Contact** links in menu bar to ensure it points to each page and position correctly.
> - Tested **Social Media icons** in Footer to ensure they open the correct pages, and in a new tab on the browser.
> - Tested **Contact Us** link on About page and ensured that it points to the Contact page on the same site. 
> - Tested **Facebook Community Group** link on About page to ensure they open the correct page, and in a new tab on the browser.
> - Tested **Carousel right and left arrows** and the right arrow moves to the next image and left arrow moves to the previous image as desired. 
> - Tested **Carousel indicator bar** and images can be selected by their position by clicking on relevant bars.
> - Tested **Send** button on Contact page without any text in inputs to ensure that it provides the desired error of 'Please fill out this field' to appropriate required fields.
> - Tested **Email** entry input by not entering a valid email address. This provides the desired error of 'Please include an @ in the email address'.
> - Tested **Radio buttons** to ensure only _one option can be selected_ and that _at least one option_ is required.
> - Further testing of Responsiveness of all pages using [Google Mobile-Friendly Test](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly)
> - 1. [Home Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=xFabK99FmnLzZb1GxaoAQA)
> - 2. [About Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=sdaKzF2MGaSQ6f24M7x7_g)
> - 3. [Gallery Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=UhXGW2xJswuM9ZqXZIc6YQ)
> - 4. [Contact Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=0KNaDvsBA9EPBlFwkz4IKA)
> - Tested overall site colours on [a11y](https://color.a11y.com/), a Color Contrast Accessibility Validator. Test came back with excellent results.
> - Tested [HTML Validation](https://validator.w3.org/) No errors or warnings to show.
> - Tested [CSS Validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
> - 1.  Parse Error on 47 items related to CSS Variable values. Researched this and found that this is a non-issue after reading reports on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57661659/w3c-css-validation-parse-error-on-variables) and other sources. It is a requested feature on [Github](https://github.com/w3c/css-validator/issues/111) too.
> - 2.  Warning 'Imported style sheets are not checked in direct input and file upload modes'. Confident to ignore these after researching and a common answer is that the validator will not validate imported style sheets. See [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25946111/importing-css-is-ending-up-with-an-error).
> - Tested site URL on [Website Page Test](https://www.webpagetest.org/) which rendered good results. Images are on the large size in PNG format and already compressed. I chose to maintain the PNG format as the image quality of the site is integral to the UX.
> - Checked grammar and spelling throughout document.
> - Ran CSS through [Autoprefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) and copied new CSS code back into style.css doc.
> - Re-ran CSS Validation and 30 warnings appeared for 'unknown vendor extension'. Confident to ignore these as answered on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5271955/css-parse-errors-from-a-generated-stylesheet).
> - Ran README text through [Online-Spellcheck](https://www.online-spellcheck.com/) to double-check on grammar and spelling.

---

### Bugs and turnarounds

> - Bootstrap grid wasn't aligning properly in different screen resolutions, specially the "Team" section. The way around was to change the structure slightly, by using the card component and putting each one of them inside of their own row.
> - About Section 'cards' were aligning fine, but uneven bottom according to how much text entered in each. Overcame by researching online and finding a workable solution on Stack Overflow using Bootstrap's d-flex and flex-fill values.
> - Contact form was not being responsive on smaller laptop views. To overcome this, I included the form in a Bootstrap Grid layout.
> - Was still not entirely happy with Carousel on mobile views and decided create a static gallery of images in mobile and tablet views instead.
> - Bootstrap Carousel on desktop views was being cut off at the bottom and allowed no space for Gallery heading. To overcome this I wrapped the carousel in its own Bootstrap Container. Added the Gallery heading above keeping the entire site consistent.
> - Encountered an issue with Bootstrap mobile navigation (hamburger menu) pushing content down when opened. This was further an issue on Firefox and Safari browsers, with content being pulled up and not positioned correctly when menu was collapsed again. To overcome this I started a new branch called 'Alternate-Nav-Menu' to work on an alternative. In CSS, I set the drop-down menu to `position:absolute` and adjusted width, background color and padding accordingly. However, this caused the navigation bar to be misplaced when in desktop view (+992px). To overcome this, I added a media query of `position:relative` and `top:0px` which worked perfectly. I then merged the branch with the master branch with no conflicts.
> - Bootstrap Hamburger menu was opening fine but once clicking a link, it wasn't closing. I researched this and found the answer on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36405991/bootstrap-toggle-menu-on-one-page-site-does-not-uncollapse-when-clicked)
---

### Code validity

> HTML - [W3C](https://validator.w3.org/) - Markup Validation
>
> CSS - [W3C](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - CSS Validation
>
> TAGS - [Closing Tag Checker for HTML5](https://www.aliciaramirez.com/closing-tags-checker/) - Validates all tags are opening and closing correctly.

---

### Version Control

> - Used Git for version control.
> - Branches were created to work on alternative fixes to issues encountered.
> - The branches were then merged with the master branch after any conflicts were addressed.

---

### Deployment

This project has been deployed on GitHub Pages with the following process:

> - All code was written on Gitpod, an online IDE.
> - The code was then pushed to GitHub where it is stored in my [Repository](https://github.com/JimLynx/CI-MS1-Explore-Ireland).
> - Under the [settings](https://github.com/JimLynx/CI-MS1-Explore-Ireland/settings) section of the GitHub repository, scrolled down to GitHub Pages section.
> - Under 'Source' drop-down, the 'Master branch' was selected.
> - Once selected, this publishes the project to GitHub Pages and displays the site url.
> - There is no difference between the deployed version and the development version.
> - The code can be run locally through clone or download.
> - You can do this by opening the repository, clicking on the green 'Code' button and selecting either 'clone or download'.
> - The Clone option provides a url, which you can use on your desktop IDE.
> - The Download ZIP option provides a link to download a ZIP file which can be unzipped on your local machine.

### Credits

> ##### Media
>
> - The main photos, logo and imagery used in this project are _owned and provided by myself_
> - About/Trip page images are taken from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/), a free stock-photo library.
>
> ##### Content
>
> All text content is _self-written_
>
> ##### Bootstrap 4 CDN Boilerplate
>
> - I've taken advantage of _Simen Daehlin's_ template boilerplate from his [Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eventyret.bootstrap-4-cdn-snippet)
>
> ##### Code Snippets
>
> - [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/transparent-background-images/) - Background image opacity on Contact page.
> - [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/) - Inspiration for contact form from 'Love Running' Mini-Project in CSS Module.
> - [Shuva Mallick](https://jsfiddle.net/shuvamallick/3o0h5oka/) - Inspiration code for Submit button colour slide effect.
> - ['djibe' on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35868756/how-to-make-bootstrap-4-cards-the-same-height-in-card-columns) - Code idea for cards inside Jumbotron.
> - [W3.org](https://www.w3.org/2005/10/howto-favicon) - How to add a Favicon to site.
> - [Orel Eliyahu' on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36405991/bootstrap-toggle-menu-on-one-page-site-does-not-uncollapse-when-clicked) for the code solution to closing hamburger menu once menu item clicked.
https://snippets.wrappixel.com/bootstrap-our-team-section/
https://www.behance.net/gallery/101605857/Arnie-Gym-website
https://bbbootstrap.com/snippets/simple-payment-credit-card-form-41641728

---

> ##### Acknowledgments
>
> I would like to thank:
>
> - My mentor, **Brian Macharia**, for his guidance, patience and encouragement throughout this project.
> - **Bim Williams** and **Simen Daehlin** for their selfless approach to sharing of their time, experience, skill and knowledge. These sessions and casual chats have allowed me to grow my skill immensely in a short period of time.
> - **CI staff** and **Slack Community** for always being on-hand with questions posted and assistance requests.
> - Everyone that takes part in the Slack calls, specifically from the **#In-It-Together** and **#Study-Group** channels.

### Support

> For any issue resolution or assistance, please email Jim Morel on jim.lynx@gmail.com

---

Commit message:

meet the crew section updated

README.md, after:

# Doug's Club

A one page web app showcasing Doug's Gym's facilities, conveying a healthy lifestyle and a friendly community.

 
### Table of Contents

> - Description - x
> - User Stories - x
> - UX - x
> - Features - x
> - Technologies Used
> - References for learning
> - Testing
> - Bugs and the turnarounds
> - Code validity
> - Version Control
> - Deployment
> - Credits
> - Acknowledgments
> - Support


### Description

> Doug's Club is a place where people from every walk of life get together to workout and to feel good about themselves - it's a place where people can train with social support. 

---

#### User Stories

> - _"Between work and university, I don't have time to sign a contract to workout. I need a simpler process to sign-up."_
> - _"I spend eight hours or more working on a pc. If I'm browsing a service for myself, I want to do it through my phone."_
> - _"The life of a student ain't easy - we're constantly on a budget. I need a service that fits on my pocket."_
> - _"I feel like having a supportive community helps our achieve our goals - I want to workout in a friendly environment."_


---

### UX

Doug's Club website aims at a broader community, targeting people from diverse backgrounds and with small time frames. A simple layout with an uncomplicated way to sign-up for the service and book classes is key. The focus is to direct people to the gym.

---

#### 1. Strategy

> The goal of this endeavour is to offer a service which will improve general well-being and help users to choose a healthier lifestyle.
>
> ##### Project Goals:
>
> - Offer a simple and fast way to sign-up for the service, to book classes and interact with the community.
>
> - Increase the perception of how a healthy lifestyle can improve general well-being.
>
> - Enlarge member's database through social media.
>
> ##### Customer Goals:
>
> - Enhanced UX design through mobile-first approach.
> - Clear and concise content, simple interaction with the system to attain a quick yet efficient visit.
> - Learn about the infrastructure of the club and its class framework through visual content.
> - Footer supplying links to Social Media.
> - Effortless sign-up service.
> - Navigation bar for a smoother navigation.
> - Diminished time to load the page and content, in order to speed up the experience.
> - Book classes on-the-fly.

#### 2. Scope

> The focus here is to achieve a version of the website with just enough features to be usable - the concept of Minimum viable product (MVP), that contains:
>
> - Catalog wiht pictures depicting the amenities of the club.
> - Map location of the club.
> - Sign-up form.
> - Straightforward UX for the users.
> - Features that match my current knowledge.
#### 3. Structure

>  On the structure plan, the effort was concentrated on prompting the user to quickly understand the layout of the page and find the content easily digestible - hence the content is structured on a bite-size framework. 
>  The gallery presents pictures of the club and are organised in a simple slide show widget with a brief description of the room - 
>  navigation bar intends to improve the returning user's experience.

#### 4. Skeleton

> - [Wireframes](assets/docs/wireframes.pdf): One-page website with **4** main sections
>
> - Home, About (Who are we?, What's in for you?, What do we offer?), Gallery, Team and Sign-Up/Contact Section/Pages
>
> - Fixed navigation bar - Menu headings pointing to each of the 4 pages.
>
> - Fixed Footer with Copyright info and Social Media icons

---

#### 5. Surface

I've decided on a relaxed, yet exciting visual experience reflecting nature and peacefulness coupled with exhilaration of more extreme 4x4 routes and breath-taking views.

> ###### Colours
>
> Neutral earth-tones, reflecting the environment, inviting the User 'outdoors'. 
> - I've chosen 2 primary greens for backgrounds (#eef4db) and headings (#425012). 
> - For body text, I've used a combination of a dark grey (#242424) and off-white (#fafafa), maintaining strong, balanced contrasts.
> 
> ###### Typography
>
> - "Varela Round" font (with fall-back font of Verdana) for main headings. This font was specifically chosen for its rounded edges, which relate to natural curves in nature.
> - "Cabin" font (with fall-back font of Sans-Serif) for body content.
>
> ###### Images
>
> The image selection has been carefully chosen to depict both relaxed road trips for beginners (to instill confidence in taking part as a newcomer); and more extreme 4x4 experiences for the advanced, familiar user.

---

### Features

##### Existing Features

> - Designed with HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.
> - Single page site with 4 sections acting as individual pages.
> - Fixed navigation allows the user to easily navigate, regardless of which page visited.
> - Fixed footer allows the user quick accessibility to social media links.
> - Auto-scrolling carousel on desktop and tablet landscape views for vivid imagery experience.
> - Fixed, stacked images for mobile views, with soft box-shadow.
> - Contact Form with radio buttons.

##### Features Left to Implement when skills develop

> - Form submission button needs to be functional (once Javascript is learnt).
> - Integration of Social media Page to have a live update feeds of planned trips and events.

---

### Technologies Used

##### 1. Languages

> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593529419/Logos/html5-50_groo6o.png)   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5).
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593529419/Logos/CSS3-50_slrv0x.png)    [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets).

##### 2. Integrations

> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593528776/Logos/Bootstrap-50_khpj57.png)   [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - by linking via [BootstrapCDN](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/) to HTML Doc.
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593528776/Logos/fontawesome-50_r5df5h.png) [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/) Icons for Social Media links in Footer.
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593528776/Logos/GoogleFonts-50_mx57p6.png) [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Overall Typography import.

##### 3. Workspace, version control and Repository storage

> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593518541/Logos/gitpod-50_qaxo1q.png)  [GitPod](https://github.com/mkuti/corklagos-venture/blob/master/gitpod.io) - Main workspace IDE (Integrated Development Environment)
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593518772/Logos/git-50_znskan.png) [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - Distributed Version Control tool to store versions of files and track changes.
>
> ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/jimlynx/image/upload/v1593518773/Logos/github-50_ixwpch.png)  [GitHub](https://github.com/) - A cloud-based hosting service to manage my **Git** repositories.

##### 4. Other

> [Autoprefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) Parses CSS and adds vendor prefixes.
> [Google Mobile-Friendly Test](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly) Mobile-friendly check on site.
> [Website Page Test](https://www.webpagetest.org/) Runs a website speed test from multiple locations around the globe using real browsers (IE and Chrome) and at real consumer connection speeds. 
> [Online-Spellcheck](https://www.online-spellcheck.com/) Online spelling and grammar checks.

##### 5. IDE Extensions used in GitPod

> - Auto Close Tag
> - Auto Nametag
> - Bracket Pair Colorizer
> - Code Spellchecker
> - Prettier - Code Formatter
> - Indent-Rainbow

---

### Resources

> - [Code Institute Course Content](https://courses.codeinstitute.net/) - Main source of fundamental knowledge.
> - Code Institute **SLACK Community** - Main source of assistance
> - [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) - General resource.
> - [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/) - General resource.
> - [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/) - General resource.
> - [W3.CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/w3css/4/w3.css) - General resource.
> - [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/help/) - For Markdown language reference.
> - [FlexBox Froggy Game](http://flexboxfroggy.com/) - Learning platform for FlexBox.
> - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - Find matching color palette for site.
> - [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com/) - Efficient compression of images for site.
> - [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) - Responsive website mockup image generator.
> - [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/) - Wireframing design tool.
> - [Kevin Powell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHO6TBq_auI) Video tutorial on CSS Variables.
> - [Bootsrap Grid Explanation by Anna Greaves](https://ajgreaves.github.io/bootstrap-grid-demo/) - This was an invaluable resource for me to wrap my head around Grid layouts.
---

### Testing

> - After initial wireframe design, I checked each navigation item link is working correctly to each Page. I set a _temporary_ contrasting background colour to each page to mark out each section.
> - Tested responsiveness of the wireframe using Dev Tools and confirmed basic structure looks and works well on all mobile decides from 320px, up to desktop size.
> - Tested **Logo text** in menu bar to ensure it points to the Home page.
> - Tested **About, Gallery and Contact** links in menu bar to ensure it points to each page and position correctly.
> - Tested **Social Media icons** in Footer to ensure they open the correct pages, and in a new tab on the browser.
> - Tested **Contact Us** link on About page and ensured that it points to the Contact page on the same site. 
> - Tested **Facebook Community Group** link on About page to ensure they open the correct page, and in a new tab on the browser.
> - Tested **Carousel right and left arrows** and the right arrow moves to the next image and left arrow moves to the previous image as desired. 
> - Tested **Carousel indicator bar** and images can be selected by their position by clicking on relevant bars.
> - Tested **Send** button on Contact page without any text in inputs to ensure that it provides the desired error of 'Please fill out this field' to appropriate required fields.
> - Tested **Email** entry input by not entering a valid email address. This provides the desired error of 'Please include an @ in the email address'.
> - Tested **Radio buttons** to ensure only _one option can be selected_ and that _at least one option_ is required.
> - Further testing of Responsiveness of all pages using [Google Mobile-Friendly Test](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly)
> - 1. [Home Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=xFabK99FmnLzZb1GxaoAQA)
> - 2. [About Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=sdaKzF2MGaSQ6f24M7x7_g)
> - 3. [Gallery Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=UhXGW2xJswuM9ZqXZIc6YQ)
> - 4. [Contact Page](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=0KNaDvsBA9EPBlFwkz4IKA)
> - Tested overall site colours on [a11y](https://color.a11y.com/), a Color Contrast Accessibility Validator. Test came back with excellent results.
> - Tested [HTML Validation](https://validator.w3.org/) No errors or warnings to show.
> - Tested [CSS Validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
> - 1.  Parse Error on 47 items related to CSS Variable values. Researched this and found that this is a non-issue after reading reports on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57661659/w3c-css-validation-parse-error-on-variables) and other sources. It is a requested feature on [Github](https://github.com/w3c/css-validator/issues/111) too.
> - 2.  Warning 'Imported style sheets are not checked in direct input and file upload modes'. Confident to ignore these after researching and a common answer is that the validator will not validate imported style sheets. See [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25946111/importing-css-is-ending-up-with-an-error).
> - Tested site URL on [Website Page Test](https://www.webpagetest.org/) which rendered good results. Images are on the large size in PNG format and already compressed. I chose to maintain the PNG format as the image quality of the site is integral to the UX.
> - Checked grammar and spelling throughout document.
> - Ran CSS through [Autoprefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) and copied new CSS code back into style.css doc.
> - Re-ran CSS Validation and 30 warnings appeared for 'unknown vendor extension'. Confident to ignore these as answered on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5271955/css-parse-errors-from-a-generated-stylesheet).
> - Ran README text through [Online-Spellcheck](https://www.online-spellcheck.com/) to double-check on grammar and spelling.

---

### Bugs and turnarounds

> - Bootstrap grid wasn't aligning properly in different screen resolutions, specially the "Team" section. The way around was to change the structure slightly, by using the card component and putting each one of them inside of their own row.
> - Meet the crew section had issues with image size for different devices - the rounded pictures were to big for smaller devices. Found the solution on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29641526/how-can-images-be-resized-using-bootstrap#:~:text=Use%20class%3D%22img%2Dresponsive,Its%20a%20bootstrap%20class).
> - Contact form was not being responsive on smaller laptop views. To overcome this, I included the form in a Bootstrap Grid layout.
> - Was still not entirely happy with Carousel on mobile views and decided create a static gallery of images in mobile and tablet views instead.
> - Bootstrap Carousel on desktop views was being cut off at the bottom and allowed no space for Gallery heading. To overcome this I wrapped the carousel in its own Bootstrap Container. Added the Gallery heading above keeping the entire site consistent.
> - Encountered an issue with Bootstrap mobile navigation (hamburger menu) pushing content down when opened. This was further an issue on Firefox and Safari browsers, with content being pulled up and not positioned correctly when menu was collapsed again. To overcome this I started a new branch called 'Alternate-Nav-Menu' to work on an alternative. In CSS, I set the drop-down menu to `position:absolute` and adjusted width, background color and padding accordingly. However, this caused the navigation bar to be misplaced when in desktop view (+992px). To overcome this, I added a media query of `position:relative` and `top:0px` which worked perfectly. I then merged the branch with the master branch with no conflicts.
> - Bootstrap Hamburger menu was opening fine but once clicking a link, it wasn't closing. I researched this and found the answer on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36405991/bootstrap-toggle-menu-on-one-page-site-does-not-uncollapse-when-clicked)
---

### Code validity

> HTML - [W3C](https://validator.w3.org/) - Markup Validation
>
> CSS - [W3C](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - CSS Validation
>
> TAGS - [Closing Tag Checker for HTML5](https://www.aliciaramirez.com/closing-tags-checker/) - Validates all tags are opening and closing correctly.

---

### Version Control

> - Used Git for version control.
> - Branches were created to work on alternative fixes to issues encountered.
> - The branches were then merged with the master branch after any conflicts were addressed.

---

### Deployment

This project has been deployed on GitHub Pages with the following process:

> - All code was written on Gitpod, an online IDE.
> - The code was then pushed to GitHub where it is stored in my [Repository](https://github.com/JimLynx/CI-MS1-Explore-Ireland).
> - Under the [settings](https://github.com/JimLynx/CI-MS1-Explore-Ireland/settings) section of the GitHub repository, scrolled down to GitHub Pages section.
> - Under 'Source' drop-down, the 'Master branch' was selected.
> - Once selected, this publishes the project to GitHub Pages and displays the site url.
> - There is no difference between the deployed version and the development version.
> - The code can be run locally through clone or download.
> - You can do this by opening the repository, clicking on the green 'Code' button and selecting either 'clone or download'.
> - The Clone option provides a url, which you can use on your desktop IDE.
> - The Download ZIP option provides a link to download a ZIP file which can be unzipped on your local machine.

### Credits

> ##### Media
>
> - The main photos, logo and imagery used in this project are _owned and provided by myself_
> - About/Trip page images are taken from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/), a free stock-photo library.
>
> ##### Content
>
> All text content is _self-written_
>
> ##### Bootstrap 4 CDN Boilerplate
>
> - I've taken advantage of _Simen Daehlin's_ template boilerplate from his [Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eventyret.bootstrap-4-cdn-snippet)
>
> ##### Code Snippets
>
> - [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/transparent-background-images/) - Background image opacity on Contact page.
> - [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/) - Inspiration for general layout from 'Whisky Drop' Mini-Project in CSS Module.
> - [Shuva Mallick](https://jsfiddle.net/shuvamallick/3o0h5oka/) - Inspiration code for Submit button colour slide effect.
> - ['djibe' on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35868756/how-to-make-bootstrap-4-cards-the-same-height-in-card-columns) - Code idea for cards inside Jumbotron.
> - [W3.org](https://www.w3.org/2005/10/howto-favicon) - How to add a Favicon to site.
> - [Orel Eliyahu' on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36405991/bootstrap-toggle-menu-on-one-page-site-does-not-uncollapse-when-clicked) for the code solution to closing hamburger menu once menu item clicked.
https://snippets.wrappixel.com/bootstrap-our-team-section/
https://www.behance.net/gallery/101605857/Arnie-Gym-website
https://bbbootstrap.com/snippets/simple-payment-credit-card-form-41641728
['israel Villacís' on Stack Overflow]https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29641526/how-can-images-be-resized-using-bootstrap#:~:text=Use%20class%3D%22img%2Dresponsive,Its%20a%20bootstrap%20class.

---

> ##### Acknowledgments
>
> I would like to thank:
>
> - My mentor, **Brian Macharia**, for his guidance, patience and encouragement throughout this project.
> - **Bim Williams** and **Simen Daehlin** for their selfless approach to sharing of their time, experience, skill and knowledge. These sessions and casual chats have allowed me to grow my skill immensely in a short period of time.
> - **CI staff** and **Slack Community** for always being on-hand with questions posted and assistance requests.
> - Everyone that takes part in the Slack calls, specifically from the **#In-It-Together** and **#Study-Group** channels.

### Support

> For any issue resolution or assistance, please email Jim Morel on jim.lynx@gmail.com

---
